
1. **BioNLP Shared Task** The task involves the recognition of two binary part-of relations between entities: PROTEIN-COMPONENT and SUBUNITCOMPLEX. The task is motivated by specific challenges: the identification of the components of proteins in text is relevant e.g. to the recognition of Site arguments (cf. GE, EPI and ID tasks), and relations between proteins and their complexes relevant to any task involving them. REL setup is informed by recent semantic relation tasks (Hendrickx et al., 2010). The task data, consisting of new annotations for GE data, extends a previously introduced resource (Pyysalo et al., 2009; Ohta et al., 2010a).

2. **The DDI Corpus** The DDI corpus contains MedLine abstracts on drug-drug interactions as well as documents describing drug-drug interactions from the DrugBank database. This task is designed to address the extraction of drug-drug interactions as a whole, but divided into two subtasks to allow separate evaluation of the performance for different aspects of the problem. The task includes two subtasks:

 - Task 1: Recognition and classification of drug names.
 - Task 2: Extraction of drug-drug interactions. The extraction of drug-drug interactions is a specific relation extraction task in biomedical literature. This task could be very appealing to groups studying PPI (protein-protein interaction) extraction because they could adapt their systems to extract drug-drug interactions.

Four types of DDIs are proposed:

 - mechanism: This type is used to annotate DDIs that are described by their PK mechanism (e.g.Grepafloxacin may inhibit the metabolism of theobromine).
 - effect: This type is used to annotate DDIs describing an effect (e.g. In uninfected volunteers, 46% developed rash while receiving SUSTIVA and clarithromycin) or a PD mechanism (e.g.Chlorthalidone may potentiate the action of other antihypertensive drugs).
 - advice: This type is used when a recommendation or advice regarding a drug interaction is given (e.g.UROXATRAL should not be used in combination with other alpha-blockers).
 - int:This type is used when a DDI appears in the text without providing any additional information (e.g.The interaction ofomeprazole and ketoconazole has been established)

 3. **PGR-crowd Corpus** Biomedical relation extraction (RE) datasets are vital in the construction of knowledge bases and to potentiate the discovery of new interactions. There are several ways to create biomedical RE datasets, some more reliable than others, such as resorting to domain expert annotations. However, the emerging use of crowdsourcing platforms, such as Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk), can potentially reduce the cost of RE dataset construction, even if the same level of quality cannot be guaranteed. There is a lack of power of the researcher to control who, how and in what context workers engage in crowdsourcing platforms. Hence, allying distant supervision with crowdsourcing can be a more reliable alternative. The crowdsourcing workers would be asked only to rectify or discard already existing annotations, which would make the process less dependent on their ability to interpret complex biomedical sentences. In this work, we use a previously created distantly supervised human phenotype–gene relations (PGR) dataset to perform crowdsourcing validation. We divided the original dataset into two annotation tasks: Task 1, 70% of the dataset annotated by one worker, and Task 2, 30% of the dataset annotated by seven workers. Also, for Task 2, we added an extra rater on-site and a domain expert to further assess the crowdsourcing validation quality. Here, we describe a detailed pipeline for RE crowdsourcing validation, creating a new release of the PGR dataset with partial domain expert revision, and assess the quality of the MTurk platform. We applied the new dataset to two state-of-the-art deep learning systems (BiOnt and BioBERT) and compared its performance with the original PGR dataset, as well as combinations between the two, achieving a 0.3494 increase in average F-measure. The code supporting our work and the new release of the PGR dataset is available at https://github.com/lasigeBioTM/PGR-crowd.


4. [BioCreative V](https://biocreative.bioinformatics.udel.edu/tasks/biocreative-v/track-3-cdr/)